add doc on webpack perfs (#6)
Slashgear/slashgear.github.io: content/posts/hunting-webpack-performances.md

---
title: How to boost the speed of your webpack build?

> description: A story of performance optimization and application of the Pareto principle for a webpack build that has become far too long.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: A story of performance optimization and application of the Pareto principle to a webpack build that has become far too long.
```

date: 2020-03-01
hero: ./assets/hunting-webpack-performances/julian-hochgesang-0Y_YNPW5qds-unsplash.jpg
layout: Post
---

> ## How did I cut the time to webpack build for my project in half?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How did I cut in half my project's webpack build time ?
```

Who never complained about the infinite duration of a webpack build on a project ?
I'm currently working on a big web application coded in React/Redux with server side rendering.
The application exists since 2015 and it has evolved a lot since then ([M6web tech blog](https://tech.m6web.fr/)).

![6play website screenshot](./assets/hunting-webpack-performances/6play.png)

## TLDR;

> Never, ever, ever, ever work on performance improvements or optimization without monitoring!

If you want to optimize the duration of a job, **you have to monitor precisely** the duration of it and all its sub-steps.

> By doing that, you can really focus on the most expensive task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only by doing that, can you really focus on the most expensive task.
```

This will save you from wasting time on optimizations that will have little impact on the system as a whole.
**Use existing monitoring tools! Create them if they don't exist!**

## What was the problem with webpack ?

> For several weeks/months my colleagues had been complaining about the length of our `yarn build` command. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For several weeks/months my colleagues had been complaining about the duration of our `yarn build` command. 
```

The purpose of this command is to build the distributable package of our application in a production target with _webpack_.

I even heard:
* "This command, I don't run it locally anymore, it takes too much time."
* "My computer starts ventilating heavily every time I run this command. There's nothing else I can do!"

Depending on the machine on which the build was launched, it took **between 5 and 12 minutes**.
It is not possible to have a build that takes so long.
`webpack` is not a slow bundler. 

> It is our use of `webpack` that is not convenient.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is our use of `webpack` that makes it slow.
```

## Focus error, a morning lost

Since this command launches a webpack build in `production` mode, I figured out that the culprit was webpack config itself.
Given that I've dug deep into webpack, I thought it would be interesting to focus on this performance concern.

> I have indeed open source a set of workshop to learn how to use webpack from scratch (https://webpack-workshop.netlify.com).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I have indeed open sourced a set of workshop to learn how to use webpack from scratch (https://webpack-workshop.netlify.com).
```

So at the end of January I took one day to improve the situation.

> I had an idea of the task that took the most time for me. I tried to improve it, I spent my whole morning on it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I had my own idea of the task that would take the most. So I tried to improve it, spending my entire morning on it. 
```

I just managed to **gain 17 seconds**.

> I'm not going to hide it from you, I was very disappointed with what I managed to do.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I'm not going to lie, I was very disappointed with what I achieved.
```

The concern in my strategy was however obvious. 
I started off with a preconceived idea _"This is definitely the stage that takes the longest."_

Nothing was objective in my analysis.
To improve the performance of an application it is necessary to focus on objective facts.

## Successful afternoon

When I came back from my lunch break, I was motivated to win more than those poor 17 seconds.
Then I remembered the Pareto principle. 

> The Pareto principle (also known as the 80/20 rule, the law of the vital few, or the principle of factor sparsity) states that, for many events, roughly 80% of the effects come from 20% of the causes.
> [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pareto_principle) 

There is probably one step that takes up most of the webpack build time.
Pareto principle adapted to webpack could mean _"80% of the build time is caused by 20% of the config"_

*Let's find the culprit ! 🎉*

I had to determine the build time of each loader, of each plugin.
I was very lucky, the webpack community has already proposed a plugin that allows to measure everything.

> It is very easy to install. ♥️

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And it is very easy to install. ♥️
```

Object took 0.024 secs

 SMP  ⏱  Loaders
babel-loader, and 
rev-replace-loader took 2 mins, 11.99 secs
  module count = 2222
modules with no loaders took 1 min, 57.86 secs
  module count = 2071
extract-css-chunks-webpack-plugin, and 
css-loader, and 
postcss-loader, and 
sass-loader took 1 min, 43.74 secs
  module count = 95
css-loader, and 
postcss-loader, and 
sass-loader took 1 min, 43.61 secs
  module count = 95
file-loader, and 
rev-replace-loader took 4.86 secs
  module count = 43
file-loader took 2.67 secs
  module count = 32
raw-loader took 0.446 secs
  module count = 1
@bedrock/package-json-loader took 0.005 secs
  module count = 1
script-loader took 0.003 secs
  module count = 1
```

As expected, it's not great! 
But at least I'm starting to get who the culprits are.
We can see that for 2222 Javascript modules takes up 2mins **but** for only 95 Sass files 1min43 🤣.

<iframe src="https://giphy.com/embed/PjNx7g5jtLyJtvDohb" width="480" height="218" frameBorder="0" class="giphy-embed" allowFullScreen></iframe>

### Damn node-sass

Once the migration from `node-sass` to `sass` (new Sass re-implementation) and the update of `sass-loader`, I was shocked!

> It took me about 10 minutes because there were few breaking changes and I **gained more than 1min30** on the build time.

Reviewer: 🎉

> `sass-loader` made big improvements on performances, you should definitely make your sure you use the last version of it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`sass-loader` made big improvements on performances, you should definitely make sure you use the last version.
```

**I lost a morning on gaining 17 seconds and I spent 10 minutes to win 1min30.🤣**

### IgnorePlugin, TerserPlugin

- `TerserPlugin` is used to uglify the javascript code in order to reduce its size and readability. It's a relatively long process, but *39 seconds* is too much.

> Just by updating the version of TerserPlugin to use the one integrated in Webpack, I could **reduce by 20 seconds** the build time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just by updating the version of TerserPlugin to use the one integrated in Webpack, I managed to **reduce by 20 seconds** the build time.
```

- `IgnorePlugin` is a core plugin that was used a lot in our application to avoid loading certain scripts in order to reduce the weight of the site.

> It was necessary, but today with Webpack we can use much better than that. _Dynamic Import, ContextReplacement_, there are plenty of solutions. As a general rule, one should avoid compiling files and then not using them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It was necessary, but today with Webpack we can use much better than that. _Dynamic Import, ContextReplacement_, there are plenty of solutions. As a general rule, we should avoid compiling files and then not using them.
```
Though this is very correct, it contrasts a lot with the overall tone of the article 💡 
It's pretty much as if I was saying in french `Pour que l'on comprenne` instead of `Pour qu'on comprenne`

### Recommendations from the community

To improve the build perfs webpack provides a web page listing the actions to take to hunt what takes time.

> Je vous recommande fortement de vous y intéresser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I strongly advise to have a look at it.
```
Oopsie 😄
